# Overall Content

We will examine the following topics:

- Audience-Content relation and the Role of Interface in defining the Experience
- Roles in UI/UX development
- Interface Conventions
- Interface Functionalitites
- Interface Aesthetics

## What is UI?

We can define a user interface as this. User is one who needs a specific content, and the interface is the bridge between the user and the content. Actually,

User -----------> Interface -------> Content

For example, a book is an interface between a reader and a story. Another example would be road signs which is a bridge between drivers and rules.

Nowadays, screens are interfaces between everyone and everything. In other words, the interface is a medium, and actually the medium is the message. The medium affects the messgae. Good interface design conveys good message and on the other hand, bad interface design conveys bad message. Moreover, the interface (medium) affects the experience. So, the interface shapes the experience. So UI shapes UX.

## Relationship between UI and UX

UI is about how your design looks. In other words, the visual design of the interface.  On the other hand, UX is about how it feels (experience) and it is actually non-visual design.

It must be notes that these two concepts are different and as a result, each of them is a different job type. Visual design is actually can be considered as graphic design, on the other hand, non-visual design might involve various tasks such as researching, planning, and testing. 
The UI designer usually focuses on form, aesthetics, look & feel, and organization, while, the UX designer concentrates on feel, navigation, story, and structure. 

**_NOTE:_** UI is driven by design, visual indentity, and surface, while UX is driven by content, engagement, and user.

UI designer concerns about visual design and UX developer focuses on social science.

Keep in mind that user experiences form (interface) before content. 
Designer experiences content before interface, and tries to shape the content and the interface. So the designer developes a special interface for the content.

## Roles in UI/UX development

When you decide to have a website, you first think of front-end and backend development. As you know, front-end is UI, and backend is the functionality of the website and it is hidden from the user. 

1. Frontend --> UI
2. Backend --> Functionality (programming)

There are several other areas that you must take into account when you decide to have a website:

3. Ideation:
It is about the idea and goals of your website

4. Testing:
It is about getting feedback from audience beginning from the early versions of the website. These feedbacks might shape both frontend and backend. This part is where UX shows up!

5. Marketing:
It is about finding user needs and producing and selling it!

6. Promotion:
It is about creating a good brand!

7. Content Development:
It is about generating useful content for users!

8. Production:
It is about putting your website in a production environment and actually your idea is getting started to working!

9. Upkeep & updates:
Without any doubt, any website needs various updates!


**_NOTE:_** You might want to work in many of these areas. For example, I would like to know about UI/UX design and level up my skillset as a backend developer. Although It is good to know about all these roles, getting master at all of them is a life-long effort!

